GUIDELINES FOR MICRO-CREDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT, APPROVAL AND RECOGNITION IN HIGHER EDUCATION
INTRODUCTION
SECTION 1. Rationale
The 1987 Philippine Constitution declares that the "State shall protect, foster and promote the right of all citizens to affordable quality education at all levels and shall take appropriate steps to ensure that education shall be accessible to all' (Article 14, Sec 2, Par 1).
Furthermore, the State shall likewise "ensure and protect academic freedom and shall promote its exercise and observance for the continuing intellectual growth, the advancement of learning and research, the development of responsible and effective leadership, the education of high-level and middle level professionals, and the enrichment of our historical and cultural heritage".
RA 7722 otherwise known as "The Higher Education Act of 1994," provides that the powers and functions of the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) shall include setting standards for monitoring and evaluation of programs of higher education institutions. This law also provided that the State-supported institutions of higher learning shall gear their programs to national, regional or local development plans. Finally, all institutions of higher learning shall exemplify through their physical and natural surroundings the dignity and beauty of, as well as their pride in, the intellectual and scholarly life".
With the CHED mandates, it continues to promote Non-traditional higher education programs to provide relevant, flexible and accessible higher education programs to all learners. The widening gap between higher education and the ever-evolving demands of the industry brought forth a significant demand for lifelong learning. Driven by the relentless pace of technological advancement, the work landscape continuously transforms rapidly. Lifelong learners need to survive this dynamic environment that demands a workforce equipped with the agility to adapt to evolving skill requirements and embrace emerging technologies.
In response to such demands, CHED and Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) along with industry partners may provide a novel approach to lifelong learning that can offer a flexible, efficient, and cost-effective solution to the challenges posed by the modern workplace through micro-credentials.
Micro-credentials offer a flexible, industry and needs-based approach to learning. Micro-credentials are often designed in collaboration with industry partners providing learners with knowledge and skills relevant to current and emerging job roles.
SECTION 2. Definition of Micro-credentials
Micro-credentials offer smaller units of learning, which can be a course or sets of courses that provide lifelong learning with knowledge, skills, values and competencies in a narrow study or practice, mostly online and provided with digital credentials. It can be a portion of macro-credentials such as a bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degree or an executive or professional development course that may complement the traditional macro-credentials.
For these guidelines, a micro-credential is defined as a course or sets of courses offered to lifelong learners within a field of study offered by an HEI or industry partners, solely developed or jointly developed by the HEI and industry partner as a component of a recognized higher education program or a standalone course that will benefit the lifelong learner's academic, personal and professional growth, aligned with the standards, and needed skills and competencies of the industry.
SECTION 3. Scope and Coverage
These guidelines cover any form of Micro-credentials, solely or jointly designed and developed by CHED-recognized public and private HEIS and industry partners, and delivered by such HEIs, industry partners, recognized non-HEI organizations, and globally recognized micro-credential providers from PQF level 5 to 8.
The guidelines underscore both stackable and non-stackable Micro credentials. Stackable micro-credentials can lead to a completion of macro credentials (bachelor, master, doctoral levels) based on existing curricular policies of CHED while non-stackable micro-credentials offer lifelong learners' industry-driven, job-relevant knowledge, skills and competencies.
These Micro-credentials can be offered through various modalities, including residential mode, modular formats, and online delivery via mobile learning, flipped learning, or other Open and Distance e-learning (ODeL) approaches.
SECTION 4. Purpose and Objectives
4.1 Purpose. This guideline supports the Philippine Qualifications Framework (PQF) that provides pathways and equivalencies for better access to qualifications. The PQF has eight (8) different levels of qualifications differentiated by descriptors of expected learning outcomes along three domains: knowledge, skills and values; application and degree of independence.
CHED Lifelong Learning Framework provides that higher education, and lifelong learning is an ongoing, voluntary and self-motivated pursuit of learning, whether for personal or professional context.
Micro-credentials taken from higher education providers and non-HEI providers from levels 5 to 8 in PQF will be clearly articulated in these general guidelines. A PQF levels 5 or 6 micro-credential has fewer units than an associate degree; a PQF Level 7 micro-credentials has fewer units than a postgraduate diploma and a PQF Level 8 micro-credentials has fewer units than the course in doctoral studies.
4.2 General Objectives. The objectives of these guidelines for Micro credentials include:
1. To define policies for designing, developing, delivering quality-assured, and recognized learning acquired through micro-credentials.
2. To specify the elements, principles and framework of micro-credentials that support skilling, reskilling, and upskilling of the workforce.
3. To provide process flow and standards in recognizing micro-credentials that lead to macro-credentials (Levels 5 to 8 of PQF); and
4. To ensure understanding of application process for micro-credentials at CHED offices by HEIS and industry partners.

SECTION 5. Principles of Micro-credentials
Micro-credentials are designed, developed, and implemented based on the following principles: learner-centered, outcomes-based and skills-based, personalized learning, industry-driven, accessible and inclusive, flexible learning, portability and mobility and assessment.

Principles of Micro-credentials
Learner-Centered — Micro-credentials are designed and developed to meet the needs and interests of the learners. Micro-credentials are also based on the skills and competencies of the learners as required by their organizations, companies, and schools.
In the implementation of the micro-credentials, the learners are involved in the quality assurance process. Their feedback, experiences and evaluation are considered part of the continuous improvement process of the micro credential.
Outcomes-based — Micro-credentials are designed based on a series of learning outcomes that define the knowledge, skills, attitudes and values that every learner needs to fulfil the demands of any life performance role or job. It is designed for competency-based learning.
Skills-Based — It is focused on developing specific skills, which can be obtained through various learning experiences, such as workshops, short courses, and even online courses.
Personalized Learning — Micro-credentials allow the learners to select from a myriad of choices based on their needs and interests. Micro-credentials provide opportunities to experience different learning and career pathways.
Industry—driven — Micro-credentials are strongly aligned with work and industry needs and demands. Micro-credentials are designed to lead every learner to different work opportunities, skills development, and professional advancement.
Accessible and Inclusive — Micro-credentials are open to all types of learners regardless of age, gender, race, position, socioeconomic status or educational attainment. Micro-credentials are open to all lifelong learners and to individuals who are committed to continuous professional development.
Flexible Learning — Micro-credentials are designed and developed using various flexible learning options allowing every learner to progress at their own pace and their place. Micro-credentials support flexible learning pathways that include the possibility of stacking, validating, and recognizing Micro-credentials from across various providers.
Portability and Mobility— Micro-credentials are owned by the learner and can be saved and shared easily through secure digital wallets (or paper certification) in line with the Data Protection Act of the Philippines. This ensures the authenticity of the micro-credential and the HEI provider.
Assessment — Micro-credentials have an appropriate teaming outcome that can be assessed based on existing standards. They are a verifiable discrete set of skills that meet the needs of the learner, employers and industry needs.

SECTION 6. Framework for Micro-credentials
The conventional tertiary education qualifications can be enhanced with the higher industry-recognized micro-credentials in the most developed form. This Framework supports lifelong learning, credit pathways, quality assured, certified and recognized, outcomes-based and PQF-level aligned forms of credentials which are offered as a single course or sets of courses which provide learners with knowledge, skills, values and competencies for the 21st Century.
CHED Framework for Micro-credentials
Lifelong learning. CHED shall ensure that Micro-credentials are accessible and are provided within the context of lifelong learning, ensuring that learners are allowed to reskill and upskill with verifiable credit pathways and quality assured. Higher Education Institutions may offer micro-credentials as stackable or non-stackable units, for-credit and non-credit.
Credit Pathways. CHED supports the recognition of micro credentials from 1 credit unit to 30 credit units (or from 17 hours to 510 hours). It can be from levels 5 to 8 of PQF and must be quality assured by CHED OPSD Non-Conventional Higher Education Division to gain credit in the higher education curricula.
Quality-Assured. CHED will ensure the quality of micro-credentials that are embedded with the existing curricular standards. Where Micro credentials are part of stackable credits, CHED OPSD through the Technical Panel of Lifelong Learning shall review Micro-credentials and ensure that these are of good quality.
Certified and recognized. CHED OPSD shall provide the listing of Micro-credentials that are quality-assured and delivered by recognized providers. The process of approving Micro-credentials is in Annex 1. Micro credentials must only come from CHED-recognized higher education institutions and programs. Industry providers of Micro-credentials must work in partnership with CHED-recognized HEIS if they intend to get stackable and for credit micro-credentials.
Outcomes-Based and Skills-Based. Micro-credentials must be outcomes-based subject to existing CHED curricular guidelines and policies. Higher Education Institutions must ensure that micro-credentials first and foremost can lead to qualifications based on credible outcomes-based courses or sets of courses within the curricular standards of CHED.
PQF-Aligned. CHED will support HEIS who are knowledgeable in developing all forms of micro-credentials from PQF Levels 5 to 8, provided that the micro-credentials offer lifelong learners' specific knowledge, skills and competencies that can be assessed. Assessment should be built within the micro-credentials, and the knowledge, skills and competencies are outcomes-based and verifiable.

SECTION 7. Elements of Micro-credentials
The basis for trust, credibility and acceptance of micro-credentials is transparency and clarity of purpose, content and assessment which are part of the elements of Micro-credentials.
The elements of Micro-credentials should be clear to allow the learners, higher education institutions, quality assurance agencies, companies, organizations, and employers to appreciate the significance, value and content of micro credentials.
The elements of Micro-credentials also allow the stakeholders to compare and choose from the available Micro-credentials.
CHED supports Micro-credentials with the following list of critical elements:
Identification of Learner— This refers to the target clients or students who should enroll in the micro-credentials. Usually, they are post-secondary students, undergraduate students, graduate students, professionals, company workers, out-of-school youths, or adults who are committed to lifelong learning, in need of upskilling, and who are interested in developing knowledge, skills, and competencies in various areas and fields.
Title — It refers to the approved and registered title or name of the micro credentials to be offered. The title of micro-credentials should be made available on the website or in the learning register of the HEI or any provider.
Description — The description includes basic information about the course:
(1) what the learners will learn, (2) how they will learn, and (3) what assessment tools are used. The description also informs the students whether the micro-credential is stackable or non-stackable. The description identifies the different learning and career pathways for the students who will enroll. These should be made accessible through relevant platforms.
Expected Number of Learning Hours/Credit Unit —This includes the ideal number of hours, both synchronous and asynchronous, to finish a micro credential and its equivalent credit unit whenever possible.
The maximum length of student engagement — This refers to the actual length of time spent by each learner for a micro-credential. It also includes the residency period or duration of student engagement for every micro-credential.
Learning Outcomes — The learning outcomes play a significant role in designing Micro-credentials. They are the expected results of learning and describe the rigor of learning for each micro-credential. They should follow a certain learning taxonomy and are classified as knowledge, skills, attitudes and values that are essential for the learners to master at the end of the course. For Micro-credentials, each learning outcome should be SMART (specific, measurable, attainable, realistic, and time-bound), and the learning outcomes should be aligned to a specific PQF level.
Content — Every micro-credential should identify the list of topics, and skills to be learned. The contents should be constructively aligned with the learning outcomes.
Learning Experiences and Mode of Delivery— These refer to the learning activities that the learners will undertake for each micro-credential. Portability is one of the characteristics of micro-credentials; thus the learning experiences could use any learning platforms that are accessible to students, and it could be done via residential mode, modular or online through mobile learning, open and distance learning, or other modalities, specific skill sets. Lifelong learners take this for personal and professional growth.

ARTICLE 2
General Policies for Micro-credentials Development, Delivery and Recognition
SECTION 8. Development of Micro-credentials
Micro-credentials can be developed to provide flexible, targeted learning opportunities for lifelong learners. Portability is one of the characteristics of micro-credentials; thus, the learning experiences could use any learning platforms that are accessible to students, and it could be done via residential mode, modular or online through mobile learning, open and distance learning, or other modalities.
CHED-Recognized HEIS can design and deliver micro-credentials online or blended with the possibility to help the learners enhance personal, academic and professional growth. HEIS can offer different forms of micro-credentials keeping in mind their unique characteristics:
8.1 For-Credit Micro-credentials Higher Education Institutions can develop, design or embed Micro-credentials with 1 to 30 credit units (17 to 510 hours). They can be stacked into a certificate, minor, or degree. micro credentials which are components of CHED-recognized academic programs must be properly recorded, assessed and graded and the learners must comply with the full requirements of the course.
Curriculum embedded Micro-credentials certifies knowledge, skills and competencies embedded in a for-credit course. These are integrated into the curriculum and aimed at enrolled students.
8.2 Non-Credit Micro-credentials — Non-credit Micro-credentials are open to all learners. Some Micro-credential providers offer Non-Credit or otherwise known as continuing education and lifelong learning modules that are meant for learning activities that do not carry credit. They are intended for lifelong learning students who want to gain general knowledge, learn a new skill, upgrade existing skills, or enrich their understanding about a wide range of topics.
Noncredit classes are usually NOT applicable toward a higher education degree. Upon completion of a series of required classes, students can earn a noncredit certificate.

SECTION 9. Delivery of Micro-credentials
Micro-credentials can be offered fully online, flexible, blended or in conventional modalities.
CHED-Recognized Open, Distance and E-learning (ODEL) HEIS can offer micro-credentials, and the qualification is awarded by these institutions. Non-ODEL providers but are CHED-recognized need to secure CHED approval and authority to offer ODEL programs before operating a Micro-credentials program.

SECTION 10. Recognition of Micro-credentials
It is essential for all HEIS offering a micro-credential to align a credit-bearing or stackable micro-credential to the Philippine Qualifications Framework.
Micro-credentials should contribute to the academic standards, rigor, and quality required by a particular target qualification. Hence recognition of micro credentials is important. CHED will look closely at the credentials of the developers, subject matter specialists, instructional designers and reviewers for the development and design of micro-credentials for its eventual recognition.
CHED shall ensure that the criteria, and requirements for micro-credentials listing, approval and recognition follow the micro-credentials framework.
The HEI shall adhere to existing laws and applicable policies including but not limited to current CHED Policies and Standards, Intellectual Property Rights (IPR Laws), and other applicable laws.
Developed micro-credential courses should show proof of compliance with government (CHED) standards and regulations, alignment to PSGs, relevance to industry needs and demands, and provision of lifelong learning.
In terms of the design and development of micro-credential courses, the HEI should have a pool of experts, resources, and an academic support system to support the implementation of the micro-credentials
In case the HEI develops a micro-credential in partnership with an industry, government agency, and/or professional organization, a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) and/or Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) should be executed by both parties.
The achievements and contributions of the HEI provider in terms of program accreditation, international and national recognition, stakeholders' feedback, industry recognition, learner's experience and feedback should be available to all stakeholders. A tracer study of all the students in different micro-credentials should be done and made accessible to the stakeholders.
A.	Applications for the Recognition of the Providers of Micro-credentials (MC). The CHED's Technical Panel on Lifelong Learning (TP-LLL) will review and monitor the quality of the implementation of Micro-credentials in coordination with CHED Office of Programs and Standards Development (OPSD). OPSD shall post a listing of recognized Micro-credentials and the approved providers annually, including the non-HEls, including the industry providers.

For Transnational Higher Education (TNHE) providers, they should inform CHED International Affairs Service (CHED IAS), the courses which are offered using Micro-credentials, whether stand alone or stackable Micro-credentials. CHED OPSD and CHED IAS may seek the assistance of Philippine Consulate abroad and the Ministries of Education or relevant agencies for Transnational Higher Education application using Micro-credentials.

B.	Grant of Approval of Micro-credentials for Non-HEIs and Industry Partners. CHED shall ensure that lifelong learning is made available to all the learners. HEIS may form partnership with Industries and Non-HEI providers to jointly offer micro-credentials.
HEIS in partnership with these providers will apply to OPSD every first quarter of the year on their intent to offer "For-Credit Micro-Credentials". CHED will advise the HEIS of their application for micro-credentials with the processing timetable. CHED will advise Higher Education Institutions if the micro credentials are not meeting the standards as indicated in these guidelines.

SECTION 11. Quality Assurance of Micro-credentials
All higher education instructions offering Micro-credentials should have an external and internal process of quality assurance to ensure the quality and credibility of Micro-credentials.
HEI should provide information about their level of accreditation and the accrediting agency that accredits them whether local or international; they should inform the learners if they are CHED-identified Center of Excellence or Center of Development; or inform the learners if they are recognized or accredited by international agencies (International Recognition). This will boost the quality of the micro-credential offered and increase the credibility of the HEI offering the micro-credential.
Quality assurance (QA) processes must be fit-for-purpose, documented, accessible, and responsive to the needs of learners and stakeholders (EU, 2021 ). All the stakeholders should be involved in assuring the quality of micro credentials through an efficient feedback and evaluation system. QA should be integrated into the management system of the HEI and supported by appropriate resources.

SECTION 12. Assessment of Learning in Micro-credentials
Micro-credentials are assessed using transparent standards and learning outcomes.
•	HEIS and MC providers should ensure that the assessment criteria and methods are quality-assured. They should ensure that assessment is performance-based, and the quality of learners' performance is verifiable. Assessment in micro-credentials utilizes various tools, rubrics and strategies that are aligned with the learning outcomes.
•	Stackable micro-credentials include assessment tools that are aligned to a formal qualification level.
•	HEIS and Micro-credential providers must ensure that the assessment processes, methods and grading systems (evaluation) are available to the learners.
•	HEIS and Micro-credentials providers must ensure that they use the most appropriate form/s of validation and assessment of the micro-credentials with which the learner's outcomes can be assessed.
•	HEIS and Micro-credentials evaluators must ensure that the information on assessment processes is linked to the agreed learning outcomes of the course.

SECTION 13. Credit Transfer of Micro-credentials
Guided by CHED policies, standards and guidelines on specific discipline or courses, HEIS may identify micro-credential courses offered by industry providers and Non-HEI entities offering world-class micro-credentials. Joint course offering shall be covered by a specific Memorandum of Agreement (MOA)/Memorandum of Understanding (MOU).
The following systems may be considered:
1. Appropriateness and alignment of the learning outcomes to a specific CHED-approved course and PQF level.
2. Number of hours (actual learning time).
3. Appropriate credit units.
4. Appropriateness of assessment to a specific PQF level and alignment with the learning outcomes; and
5. Issuance of a numerical grade for the micro-credentials.

Credit (Stackable) Micro-credentials — Some of the existing programs and courses offered by different HEIS can be converted into MCs provided they are designed following the principles and the required elements for micro credentials as specified in the guidelines.
• Upon evaluation of the HEI, industry-based MCs could be credited into degree programs depending on the level of learning outcomes and rigor of assessment. Stackable micro-credentials can be levelled or stacked to broad higher education levels depending on the receiving HEI, companies and offices' standards and practices. Each micro-credential can be bundled into:
• Undergraduate or Bachelor Level
• Postbaccalaureate Certificate
• Graduate Diploma
• Master's Level
• Doctoral Level

Crediting of Micro-credentials from CHED recognized Industry providers will be implemented by the HEI following the number of allowable hours/credit units as prescribed in this CMO.
HEIS intending to offer Micro-credentials will have to organize a team of qualified Micro-credentials developers, reviewers and quality assurance committee to carefully review the content and outcomes of each micro-course.
HEIS Academic, Curriculum and Instruction Committees shall ensure that the contents of micro-credentials are relevant and that the knowledge, skills and competencies are verifiable by assessment. The sample Micro-credentials Review process can be found in Annex 2.

Section 14. Digital Credentials
Micro-credentials may award Digital badges that allow a lifelong learner to present in a digital format certain achievements they have gained through academic coursework, experiential learning, professional development, or workforce training.
Lifelong learners who obtained digital badges can share or display their badges on various online platforms such as LinkedIn, social media sites, and e-portfolios.
Digital badges can present information for prospective employers a verifiable learning outcomes, competencies, and skills an earner acquired through their respective learning experiences. They can be awarded for credit or non-credit and are applicable to undergraduates, graduates, non-traditional students, and working professionals.

SECTION 15. Student Support Services
The HEI provider should have the necessary instructional and administrative support system to enhance the learning experiences of the students and support the achievement of learning outcomes taken under micro-credentials. This student support system should be accessible to all students. A MOA is required for this type of collaboration with industry partners.


ARTICLE 3
IMPLEMENTATION MECHANISMS
Section 16. Designing, Delivering and Validation of Micro-credentials
A. Designing Micro-credentials. In designing micro-credentials, HEIS shall be guided by the following:
1. Micro-credentials provide learners with a flexible and more focused approach to acquiring specific skills and competencies in shorter durations compared to traditional degree programs. The main objective of micro credentials is to provide relevant education that will promote employability, and career advancement and address specific skill gaps.
2. Collaborating with industry experts, professional organizations or employers is essential in developing, delivering and assessing micro-credentials. To ensure quality and relevance, the standards should be aligned with industry needs.
A. Delivering Micro-credentials. Micro-credentials are provided online, hence the use of specific applications and technology is encouraged to deliver quality and accessible micro-credential programs. Online platforms, learning management systems, as well as digital credentialing tools will enhance accessibility, scalability as well as flexibility in the delivery of micro-credential programs.
Only HEIS with CHED-recognized programs can confer certificates for stackable micro-credential programs.
B. Validation of micro-credentials. Higher Education Institutions may recognize micro-credentials offered by recognized providers taken in the current year. A suggested system for crediting micro-credential is in Annex 2.
Registrars need to ensure recognition of Micro-credentials taken within the semesters when they are taken.
Micro-credentials can only be offered for at least three (3) years by submitting yearly proof that such MC is still current and in demand and an updated syllabus. MCs without enrollees for a year will be removed from the list.

SECTION 17. Micro-credentials Issued Abroad
CHED OPSD shall provide the list of Micro-credentials issued by HEIs, Industries or by Non-HEls Micro-credential providers provided that the micro credentials are recognized by a foreign qualifications system. This can be listed in the CHED Website or may be verified with CHED Regional Offices.

Section 18. Certificates on Micro-credentials
Higher Education Institutions, industry providers or CHED-approved Non-HEI micro-credential providers should provide certificates of completion after the learners successfully complied with all the requirements of the micro credentials.
CHED will ensure that the only the HEIS and Industry-based Micro-credential partners, including non-HEI entities approved to offer micro-credentials in the Philippines will be listed in the CHED Recognized Micro-credential providers.

SECTION 19. Transitory Provision. 
All Higher Education Institutions that have offered Micro-credentials within the Academic Year 2024-2025 shall submit and register to CHED their Micro-credentials program whether Stand-alone, For Credit or Non-credit, to ensure registration following the process of Micro credentials recognition in Section 10.

Annex 1. Procedure of Approving Micro-credentials (MC)
Application Process of HEIS applying to offer Micro-credentials for Credit

Step 1: An HEI submits to CHED OPSD a Letter of Intent to offer micro-credentials. (HEIS who have already offered Micro-credentials in AY 2024-2025 will follow the same process for registration and recognition.)
Step 2: CHED OPSD and the Technical Panel on Lifelong Learning (TP-LLL) reviews and acts on the submission by the HEI intending to provide micro-credentials in higher education courses.
Step 3: CHED OPSD reviews and submits the decision on the HEIs' application to the CEB for decision.
Step 4: CEB acts on all recommended for credit micro-credentials.
Step 5: CHED OPSD returns/gives feedback on the application.
Step 6: CHED OPSD provides the listing of accredited micro-credential providers from HEI.
Note: Any disapproved MC application for approval will be returned by the CHED OPSD to the HEI.
1. B Application Process for HEI and Industry Providers to offer Industry-Based Micro-credentials
The process flow presented below shows the approval of MCs submitted by HEIS and Industry providers:

Application Process for HEI and Industry Providers to offer Industry-Based Micro-credentials
Step 1: A recognized HEI and industry partner submits to CHED a Letter of Intent to offer "For-Credit" micro-credentials.
Step 2: CHED OPSD reviews and acts on the submission by the HEI intending to provide Industry-based "For-Credit MCs.
Step 3: CHED OPSD reviews and submits the decision on the application of HEIS to the CEB for decision.
Step 4: CEB acts on all recommended Industry Micro-credentials.
Step 5: CHED OPSD returns/gives feedback on the application.
Step 6: CHED OPSD provides the listing of accredited micro-credential providers from recognized HEIS
Note: Any disapproved MC application for approval will be returned by the CHED OPSD to the HEI and Industry provider.

Figure 5. Application Process for Non-HEIs Micro-credential Providers
Step 1: A Non- HEI/Micro-credential provider submits to CHED OPSD a Letter of Intent to offer micro-credentials.
Step 2: CHED OPSD and the Technical Panel on Lifelong Learning (TP-LLL) reviews and acts on the submission by the Non-HEI /MC Provider intending to provide micro-credentials for higher education.
Step 3: CHED OPSD reviews and submits the decision on the application to the CEB for decision.
Step 4: CEB acts on all recommended micro-credentials.
Step 5: CHED OPSD returns/gives feedback on the application.
Step 6: CHED OPSD provides the listing of Non-HEI micro-credential providers.
Note: Any disapproved MC application for approval will be returned by the CHED OPSD to the Non-HEI provider.

Annex 2. Sample Crediting Process of HEI and Industry-based Micro-credentials

Roles and Responsibilities:
HEIS — Higher Education Institutions identifies Micro-credentials to ensure that the MCs are relevant, industry and demand-driven.
CHED — OPSD shall devise a system for monitoring HEIS offering and crediting MCs in close partnership with CHED Regional Offices to ensure compliance with this CMO. OPSD shall aid HEIS needing support on micro credentials.
Industry-based MC providers — Ensures relevance of courses with HEIS and industry needs. It is advisable that Industry-based micro-credentials are part of the HEI-Industry collaboration or partnership agreement.
Non-HEI and Non-Industry-based MC providers shall ensure that CHED approval is obtained should they offer micro-credentials collaboratively with a Higher Education Institution.

Annex 3: Sample Computation of Micro-credentials Embedded in the Curriculum
The following example illustrates the general procedure for calculating the number of micro-credentials units and hours that can be credited toward a degree program:





General Calculation for Crediting Micro-credentials Unit Equivalent number of hours
Unit	 	Equivalent number of hours
1 unit	8-10 hours
1 unit	17 hours
3 units	51 ours
30 units available for credit	510hours
-	1 unit = 18 hours of instruction
-	3 units * 17 hours = 51 hours
-	3 units = 51 hours of instruction o Therefore, if 3 units = 51 hours, then 30 units = 510 hours of instruction.
Programs	Study Load	30 units or 30% of the total units for credit	Equivalent number of hours
Bachelor's degree	Approximately 140 to 205 units	30 units only	510 hours of instruction
Master's degree	At least 30 units	30 * 30% = 9 units	162 hours
Doctoral Program	At least 24 units and
12 dissertation units	24 * 30% =
7 units	129.6 hours of instruction

For bachelor’s degree:
The average number of credit units for a bachelor's degree = 140 credit units
Only 30 credit units available for credit for micro-credentials o This means only 30 units out of the total 140 units can be credited from micro-credentials.
For master’s degree:

Only 30% of the total units are available for credit from micro-credentials.
This means 9 units can be credited from micro-credentials.

For Doctoral programs:
Only 30% of the total units are available for credit through micro-credentials. o This means 7 units can be credited from micro-credentials.

Annex 6: Glossary of Terms
For this CMO, the terms herein are defined operationally:
1. Accredited Professional Organizations are recognized accrediting agencies/organizations established for the promotion of the benefit and welfare of the professionals of one discipline, the advancement of their profession, and the attainment of other professional ends.
2. Career pathways are specific jobs, work opportunities, skills, competencies, and qualifications that learners will obtain after acquiring a micro-credential. Career pathways are also the results of the learning pathways.
3. Certification is an official document attesting to the status of achievement awarded/granted by a recognized Philippine higher education institution.
4. Continuing education refers to short courses which allow individuals to complete formal education, to acquire or update knowledge and skills and gain qualifications.
5. Credit pathways refer to the process of obtaining credit and recognition of a micro credential to a formal qualification.
6. Credit transfer is a mechanism for the determination of the equivalencies between two existing qualifications and agreement on the amount of credit that may be awarded from this matching of equivalencies. (PCTS). The amount of credit is based on a determination of equivalencies after matching the learning outcomes of the two qualifications, considering the requirements of the different PQF levels and the discipline/industry. The credit transfer system helps promote student mobility by ensuring that units earned from different modalities are recognized and accredited by any institution.
7. Competency is the ability to apply and use a set of related skills, knowledge, and abilities to successfully perform functions or tasks in a defined work setting. (UNESCO-UNEVOC)
8. Curriculum in the simplest terms refers to a planned content, a set of learning outcomes and learning experiences or a document describing the learning outcomes, content, learning experiences, and evaluation.
9. Higher Education Institution (HEI) refers to a college, university, institute or institution of higher learning offering bachelor and advanced degree programs.
10. Industry refers to the different businesses companies and establishments, or a group of enterprises involved in the production of goods, providing services, and in participating in other economic activities.
11. Learning outcomes are statements of knowledge, understanding, attitudes, values, skills, competencies or behaviors a learner has mastered upon the successful completion of an education program. (Adapted from: UIS 2012) (UNESCO-BE, 2013).
12. Learning pathways are learning outcomes that serve as curriculum benchmarks for what learners need to know and will be able to do after a certain period of study. Learning pathways will lead to certain career paths for the learners.
13. Level descriptor is a general statement that summarizes the learning outcomes appropriate to a specific level in the PQF grouped in domains of learning. It describes what an individual should be able to know, perform or demonstrate at a particular level (IRR of RA 10968).
14. Lifelong learners are individuals (students, professionals, company workers, out of-school youths) who continue to learn new skills and competencies throughout life.
15. Micro-credentials (MCs) are units of learning designed to allow recognition of a discrete set of skills that meet the learner, employer, industry, and community needs (NZQA, 2022). It shows the records of the learning outcomes that a learner has acquired over a short period of learning. These learning outcomes have been assessed against transparent and clearly defined standards (EU, 2021 
16. Non-credit (non-stackable, stand-alone) are stand-alone Micro-credentials that are offered usually to address lifelong learning needs of students. It is a short course for personal, professional, technical and academic development of the learners which is not part of formal qualification or degree.
17. Philippine Qualifications Framework (PQF) is a national policy which describes the levels of educational qualifications and sets the standards for qualifications outcomes. It is a quality-assured national system for the development, recognition and award of qualifications based on standards of knowledge, skills and values acquired in different ways and methods by learners and workers of a certain country (RA 10647).
1 8. Recognition refers to the process of accrediting the offering of micro-credential by an HE-I.
19. Recognition of prior learning refers to the acknowledgment of a person's skills and knowledge through previous training, work or life experience, which may be used to grant status or credit for acquired competencies. (RA 10467).
20. Qualifications — is a formal proof of successfully completed learning according to an agreed standard. (UNESCO-UNEVOC)
21. Stackable micro-credentials — are micro-credentials that are designed, developed and implemented to meet the requirements of a degree or other formal qualifications. Equivalent credit units, alignment to a specific PQF level, and the possible course equivalent are included in the design of the micro-credential.
22. Provider is an HEI, organization, company or institution offering micro-credentials. It offers and certifies the validity of a micro-credential.
23. Qualification as a term is commonly used in at least two different ways/contexts: (a) formal qualification: the formal outcome (certificate, diploma or title) of an assessment and validation process which is obtained when a competent body determines that an individual has achieved learning outcomes to given standards and/or possesses the necessary competence to do a job in a specific area of work; a qualification confers official recognition of the value of learning outcomes in the labor market and in education and training, and can be a legal entitlement to practice a trade; and (b) job requirements: knowledge, aptitudes and skills required to perform the specific tasks attached to a particular work position. (CEDEFOP, 2011; UNESCO-IBE, 2013)
24. Quality Assurance System is the process of ensuring the quality of micro credentials using acceptable and transparent quality standards. A QA system could be done through an internal or external, or both processes.
